
"A lush debut; Owens delivers her mystery wrapped in gorgeous, lyrical prose." --Alexandra Fuller, author of Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight

How long can you protect your heart?

For years, rumors of the "Marsh Girl" have haunted Barkley Cove, a quiet town on the North Carolina coast. So in late 1969, when handsome Chase Andrews is found dead, the locals immediately suspect Kya Clark, the so-called Marsh Girl. But Kya is not what they say. Sensitive and intelligent, she has survived for years alone in the marsh that she calls home, finding friends in the gulls and lessons in the sand. Then the time comes when she yearns to be touched and loved. When two young men from town become intrigued by her wild beauty, Kya opens herself to a new life--until the unthinkable happens.

Perfect for fans of Barbara Kingsolver and Karen Russell, Where the Crawdads Sing is at once an exquisite ode to the natural world, a heartbreaking coming-of-age story, and a surprising tale of possible murder. Owens reminds us that we are forever shaped by the children we once were, and that we are all subject to the beautiful and violent secrets that nature keeps.

From the author Delia Owens: Why I chose the wild coastal marsh of North Carolina as the setting for my novel:

“Marsh is a space of light, where grass grows in water, and water flows into the sky.”

I placed my novel in the wild coastal marsh of North Carolina for both practical and poetic reasons. The story begins with the young heroine, Kya, growing up mostly alone in a raw-cut shack, deep in the wilds of the marsh. By the time all of her family has walked away for good, she is ten years old, and I wanted her story to be believable, not fanciful. As I write in the first chapter, “maybe it was mean country, but not an inch was lean.” Layers of life – mussels, oysters, crabs, and fish were piled on the land and in the water. The temperature was moderate and firewood available, making it truly possible for a ten-year old girl to survive in this setting.

Just as important, I chose this wilderness because I grew up in South Georgia and was familiar with the bright marsh and darker swamp. My mother and I canoed through these waterways, camped on these shores. Writing about it came easily.

Then there is the symbolism and poetry of the marsh that flows through the story. The bright, open waterways represent a place where human behaviors such as love, family, and learning unfold. On the other side, the murkier swamp presented the setting for less desirable, but sometimes essential, human traits. Most of us must navigate both during our lives, and hopefully find our way back into that space of light. 